Generated from $Fink: readme.en.xml,v 1.8 2013/07/09 02:28:18 alexkhansen
Exp $

 Fink ReadMe
=============

This is Fink, a package management system that aims to bring the full world
of Open Source software to Darwin and Mac OS X.

With the help of dpkg, it maintains a separate directory hierarchy. It
downloads original source releases, patches them if necessary, configures
them for Darwin and compiles and installs them. The information about
available packages and the necessary patches (the "package descriptions")
are maintained separately, but are usually included with this distribution.
The actual source code is downloaded from the Internet as necessary.

Although Fink cannot be considered "mature" and it has some rough edges and
lacking features, it is successfully used by a large number of people.
Please read the instructions carefully and don't be surprised if something
doesn't work as expected. There are good explanations for most failures;
check the website if you need help.

Fink is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License. See the
file COPYING for details.


 Requirements
--------------
You need:

 * An installed Mac OS X system, version 10.6 or later. Earlier versions
   will not work with fink-0.35.1.

 * Development tools. For 10.6, you should install Xcode 3.2.6 or 4.2, which
   can be downloaded from connect.apple.com after registering. For 10.7 and
   10.8, installing the Xcode Command Line Tools is mandatory to use the
   most current build applications. This can be installed either by
   downloading it directly via connect.apple.com or through the Xcode
   application via the Components page of the Downloads tab of the
   Preferences. On 10.7 one can install an earlier monolithic Xcode (4.2.1
   and earlier), but this isn't recommended.

   Make sure that the tools you install match your Mac OS X version.

 * Internet access. All source code is downloaded from mirror sites.

 * Patience. Compiling several big packages takes time. I'm talking hours or
   even days here.


 Installation
--------------
The installation process is described in detail in the file INSTALL. Please
read it first, the process is non-trivial. It also describes the upgrade
procedure.


 Using Fink
------------
The file USAGE describes how to set your paths and how to install and remove
packages. It also has a complete list of available commands.


 Further Questions?
--------------------
If the documentation included here doesn't answer your question, stroll over
to the Fink website at <http://fink.sourceforge.net/> and check out the Help page there:
<http://fink.sourceforge.net/help/>. It
will point you at the other documentation that is available and sources for
support if you need it.

If you'd like to contribute to Fink, the Help page mentioned above also has
a list of things you can do, like testing or creating packages.


 Staying Informed
------------------
The project's website is at <http://fink.sourceforge.net/>.

To be informed of new releases, go to
http://fink.sourceforge.net/lists/fink-announce.php
[http://fink.sourceforge.net/lists/fink-announce.php] and subscribe to the 
fink-announce mailing list.
The list is moderated and low-traffic.


EOF.
